Added IS Readme (#2)
eProsima/Integration-Services-docs: README.md

# eProsima Integration Services
![http://www.eprosima.com](https://encrypted-tbn3.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcSd0PDlVz1U_7MgdTe0FRIWD0Jc9_YH-gGi0ZpLkr-qgCI6ZEoJZ5GBqQ)
<!-- ![eProsima](/home/luisgp/Documentos/doc-generada/eProsima.png) -->

> *eProsima Integration Services* is a library and an utility based on *Fast RTPS* for making communication bridges between different systems, services and protocols. With the *Integration Services* the user can create parametric communication bridges between applications. At the same time, it is able to perform some transformations over the messages such as customized routing, mapping between input and output attributes or data modification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*eProsima Integration Services* is a library and an utility based on *Fast RTPS* for making communication bridges between different systems, services and protocols. With *Integration Services* the user can create parametric communication bridges between applications. At the same time, it is able to perform some transformations over the messages such as customized routing, mapping between input and output attributes or data modification.
```

> Some of the possibilities offered by the *Integration Services* are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of the possibilities offered by *Integration Services* are:
```

-   Connections for jumping from topics which are running on different domains.
-   Adapters for mapping the attributes from types with different IDL definitions.
-   User-defined operations over the circulating messages.
-   Communication with others environments, as *ROS2*.

#### Installation

> Before compiling *eProsima Integration Services* you need to have installed *Fast RTPS* as described in its [documentation ](http://eprosima-fast-rtps.readthedocs.io/en/latest/binaries.html>). For cloning this project execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before compiling *eProsima Integration Services* you need to have installed *Fast RTPS* as described in its [documentation](http://eprosima-fast-rtps.readthedocs.io/en/latest/binaries.html). For cloning this project execute:
```

    $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/eProsima/integration-services

Now, for compiling, if you are on Linux execute:

    $ mkdir build && cd build
    $ cmake ..
    $ make

If you are on Windows choose your version of Visual Studio:

    > mkdir build && cd build
    > cmake ..  -G "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64"
    > cmake --build .

### Steps to allow other protocols than RTPS

*Integration Services* has a builtin RTPS bridge, but you can specify any other procotol implementing your own libraries.

There are two kind of libraries that the user can implement:

**Bridge Library**: This library must export the following functions as defined in the *resource/templatebridgelib.cpp* file:

    ISBridge* create_bridge(const char* name,
    	std::vector<std::pair<std::string, std::string>> *configuration);
    ISSubscriber* create_subscriber(ISBridge* bridge, const char* name,
    	std::vector<std::pair<std::string, std::string>> *configuration);
    ISPublisher* create_publisher(ISBridge* bridge, const char* name,
    	std::vector<std::pair<std::string, std::string>> *configuration);

> The function *create_bridge* must return a pointer to an instance of a derived class of ISBridge, or nullptr if failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function *create_bridge* must return a pointer to an instance of a derived class of ISBridge, or nullptr if it has failed.
```

> The function *create_subscriber* must return a pointer to an instance of a derived class of ISSubscriber, or nullptr if failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function *create_subscriber* must return a pointer to an instance of a derived class of ISSubscriber, or nullptr if it has failed.
```

> The function *create_publisher* must return a pointer to an instance of a derived class of ISPublisher, or nullptr if failed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The function *create_publisher* must return a pointer to an instance of a derived class of ISPublisher, or nullptr if it has failed.
```

> Integration Services will deallocate this objects from memory when the bridge is stopped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration Services will deallocate these objects from memory when the bridge is stopped.
```

> Let's take a look to this interfaces:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's take a look to these interfaces:
```

	class ISPublisher
	{
	public:
	    ISPublisher(const std::string &name);
	    virtual ~ISPublisher() = default;
	    virtual bool publish(SerializedPayload_t *data);
	    virtual ISBridge* setBridge(ISBridge *bridge);
	};

	/** Base class for subscribers. Must know how to read from the origin protocol */
	class ISSubscriber
	{
	public:
	    ISSubscriber(const std::string &name);
	    virtual ~ISSubscriber() = default;
	    virtual void addBridge(ISBridge* bridge);
	    virtual void on_received_data(SerializedPayload_t* payload);
	};

	/**
	 * Base class for Bridges. All implementation must inherit from it.
	 */
	class ISBridge
	{
	public:
	    ISBridge(const std::string &name);
	    virtual ~ISBridge();
	    virtual void addSubscriber(ISSubscriber *sub);
	    virtual void addFunction(const std::string &sub, const std::string &fname, userf_t func);
	    virtual void addPublisher(const std::string &sub, const std::string &funcName, ISPublisher* pub);
	    virtual ISPublisher* removePublisher(ISPublisher* pub);
	    virtual void on_received_data(const ISSubscriber *sub, SerializedPayload_t *data);
	    virtual void onTerminate() override;
	};

> When implementing your ISBridge derived class, you must take in account:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you implement your ISBridge derived class, you must take in account:
```

- Only ISPublisher::publish is mandatory to implement.
- When your subscriber receives data, you must call on_received_data function with the data properly converted into SerializedPayload_t.
- You can override the default behaviour, but isn't recommended in general. This behaviour follows this diagram:

```plantuml
@startuml
hide footbox

participant ISSubscriber
participant ISBridge
participant TransformationLibrary
participant ISPublisher

[-> ISSubscriber : receive

ISSubscriber -> ISSubscriber : on_received_data
ISSubscriber -> ISBridge : on_received_data
ISBridge -> TransformationLibrary : transform
TransformationLibrary --> ISBridge : <<transform_return>>
ISBridge -> ISPublisher : publish

ISPublisher ->] : write
@enduml
```

> When the subscriber calls it self to *on_received_data*, it will call all the *bridges* it belongs, calling the method *on_received_data* of each bridge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the subscriber calls to its method *on_received_data*, it will call all the *bridges* it belongs, calling the method *on_received_data* of each bridge.
```

Then the bridges will apply each respective transformation functions to the data and will call the *publish* method of each of their publishers.

> All this behaviour will only accors with the declared connectors in the XML configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All this behaviour will only occurs with the declared connectors in the XML configuration file.
```

> **Transformation Library**: This *optional* library must implement transformation functions for the received data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Transformation Library**: This *optional* library must implement the transformation functions for the received data.
```

> This *Transformation Libraries* are indicated in each connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These *Transformation Libraries* are indicated in each connector.
```

The *Bridge* connector will be configured with the function to call in each case.
There is a prototype in *resource/templatelib.cpp*:

	extern "C" void USER_LIB_EXPORT transform(
		SerializedPayload_t *serialized_input,
		SerializedPayload_t *serialized_output)

> For both types of libraries, there are examples in each example folder of [FIROS2](https://github.com/eProsima/FIROS2/tree/master/examples) project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both types of libraries, there are examples in the *examples* folder of [FIROS2](https://github.com/eProsima/FIROS2/tree/master/examples) project.
```

May be necessary generate data types from IDL files to communicate with *Fast-RTPS*.

The **config.xml** file must be adapted to each protocol. **ISManager** will provide the parsed *properties* node inside *bridge* node to the *create_bridge* function as a vector of pairs, as defined in the *Bridge Libraries*.
The same applies for each publisher and subscriber inside *bridge* node and its *property* nodes.

> Your custom publisher/subscriber must inherit ISPublisher/ISSubscriber respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your custom publisher/subscriber must inherit from ISPublisher/ISSubscriber respectively.
```

    </is>

In this file there are defined two RTPS *participants*, and a *bridge*. All of them have a subscriber and a publisher.
Relationship between *participants* and *subscribers*/*publishers* defined in the *profiles* section are stablished by each *connector*. This allows to share *subscribers*/*publishers* configurations between *participants*.
There are four connectors defined: *shapes_projection*, *shapes_stereo*, *shapes_protocol* and *protocol_shapes*.

There are several possible types of connectors depending of the kind of its participants.

- RTPS Bridge:

In this kind of connector, both participant are RTPS compliant, like *shapes_projection* and *shapes_stereo* in our example file.

```plantuml
@startuml

package "RTPS-Publisher" <<Cloud>> {
    class Publisher
}

package "Integration Services" <<Rectangle>> {
    class UserLibrary {
        +NodeA_t transform(NodeB_t)
    }
}

Publisher -right-> UserLibrary

package "RTPS-Subscriber" <<Cloud>> {
    class Subscriber
}

UserLibrary -left-> Subscriber

@enduml
```

* RTPS -> Other protocol

This connector will communicate a RTPS environment with another protocol. Just like our *shapes_protocol* connector.

> Your *Bridge Library* must define at least a publisher to your desired protocol and it is responsible to communicate with it and follow the ISPublisher interface. By default, the transformation function will be applied after the instance of ISBridge is called in the on_received_data method. If you want to change this behaviour you will need to override the complete data flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your *Bridge Library* must define at least a publisher to your desired protocol and it is responsible to communicate with it and follow the ISPublisher interface. By default, the transformation function is applied after *on_received_data* method calls to the instance of ISBridge. If you want to change this behaviour you will need to override the complete data flow.
```

*Bridge_configuration* node can contain configuration information that *Bridge Library* must understand. ISManager will parse the *property* nodes of each element and will call the respective *create_* function of the library with a vector of pairs with the data contained.
If no *bridge_configuration* is provided, then your createBridge will be called with nullptr or an empty vector as parameter config.

*Transformation* library could be reused by your bridge library, with the same or another transformation function inside the same transformation library (an example of reusing the transformation library can be found on [FIROS2](https://github.com/eProsima/FIROS2/tree/master/examples/TIS_NGSIv2).

> Of course, you can add builted in transformation functions inside your *bridge library*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Of course, you can add built in transformation functions inside your *bridge library*.
```

* Other procotol -> RTPS

> Similar case as the previous one, but in the other way, as in the connector *protocol_shapes* of our example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a similar case as the previous one, but in the other way, as in the connector *protocol_shapes* of our example.
```

# eProsima Integration Services
![http://www.eprosima.com](https://encrypted-tbn3.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcSd0PDlVz1U_7MgdTe0FRIWD0Jc9_YH-gGi0ZpLkr-qgCI6ZEoJZ5GBqQ)

*eProsima Integration Services* is a library and an utility based on *Fast RTPS* for making communication bridges between different systems, services and protocols. With *Integration Services* the user can create parameterized communication bridges between applications. At the same time, it is able to perform some transformations over the messages such as customized routing, mapping between input and output attributes or data modification.

Some of the possibilities offered by *Integration Services* are:

> -   Connections for jumping from topics which are running on different domains.

Author: Changed. I'll apply all this suggested changes in a unique commit instead different commits applying them.

> -   Adapters for mapping the attributes from types with different IDL definitions.

Author: Changed.
